how to fix your go to market
[Music]
strategy welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning and if
you want to join thousands of Legends
enjoying my weekday emails checking out
past podcast episodes or if you want to
apply to work with us head over to
Breaking B2B . com So today we're going
to be diving into how exactly you can
fix your GTM strategy I'm going to be
joined by Christopher rat who's the CEO
over our MRP we're going to be talking
about why so many B2B GTM strategies are
subpar are falling short are not where
they should be what makes a solid goto
Market strategy and some of the
fundamentals so if you're looking to
ramp things up with your GTM perhaps
you're thinking about ramping things up
at your business startup or established
company give you some tricks and tips of
what makes a solid Strat so with that
Chris welcome to the show how are you
sir I'm good thanks for having me pumped
no worries dude looking forward to the
chat looking forward to your thoughts
opinions strategies and more as I'm sure
there'll be plenty so that in mind why
is it that so many goto Market
strategies that we're seeing especially
in the B2B Tech space service space are
not where companies want to be like why
are they falling short do you believe
Chris I mean I think right now a lot of
strategies are falling short simply
because the market is changed so
significantly um I mean just in the past
six to 12 months uh the the landscape to
go to market is just drastically
different there are less in Market
buyers than ever uh there are less you
know budgets than ever or I when I say
ever in the past four to six years right
and the boom of what was 20 9 to 2022
when interest rates are low and money
was free created kind of a false a false
narrative or false sense of security
when it comes to uh you know actual go
to market performance right so what's
happened now is that uh the market has
I'll say corrected right to to normal
times and again I've been selling in
this space since the early 2000s right
so you know now that it's corrected back
down a lot of go to market teams just
don't know what to do they've never sold
you know in an environment like this and
you know everybody's just kind of
struggling and kind of clawing to figure
out exactly how to attack
it yeah so let's let's dissect that a
bit so there's less in Market buyers
you're right the Market's changed
especially in the the B2B tax sector
where funding is a lot more difficult to
to get a hold of than it was say three
four or so years back so because of that
is that why there's less folks in Market
or what what do you think is actually
causing that that change um I mean yes
that that is I believe why there's less
folks in Market
um all companies especially in B2B
technology right have been forced to go
lean and and look at really look at
their their profitability numbers their
cost their spend their churn rates their
burn rates because they they know that
you just can't magically go out you know
call a couple of V SE up and find your
next you know 50 to100 million at a 10x
valuation right so with that with that
internal you know let's call it lockdown
if you will right or push towards a more
conservative spending approach uh
companies are simply just spending on
less things right they're they're
focused on more of the absolutely have
to haves and not a lot of the nice to
haves and um when that happens there's
just you know less people buying new
things than there have been in the past
four or five years and I think it's
directly correlated to that right um ALS
you know also and again that that is
correlated to interest rates being
higher right and the availability of
quote unquote free or very cheap money
to drive the growth of a lot of these
companies is just not there I see I see
and is is The Logical answer here that
because there's less folks in Market we
just need to ramp up everything that
we've been doing like no matter what the
strategy is perhaps it was paid media
perhaps it was outbound sales perhaps it
was utilizing our Network perhaps it was
trade shows perhaps it was something
else does it mean we just ramp up
volumes ramp up spend and that's the
Cure no I mean I think first off when I
say less folks in Market I don't say I
mean again if you're looking at an
aggregated trailing 20 years this what
we're seeing now is probably best
correlated to the times between 2009 to
17 right so I call it normal right but
then you know two the 2018 to 2022 boom
right created again I think an
overcorrection on the upward side right
so sure there's less people in market
right now than there have been over the
past four or five years but it's really
the same as there were in probably the
10 to 12 years before but to answer your
question um no right the answer is not
do more per se right it's not spend more
be more it's really be more focused and
and where it is that you're going to
spend or what it is that you're going to
invest in um ensure that you're laser
focused on it and your execution is
Flawless right I mean I think right now
go to market is almost go to market
success is almost exclusively about
execution and less about
strategy I like it and I want to dive
into that a bit more shortly and we'll
perhaps te up with a couple examples
Chris and you can share kind of what you
believe is the best practice but before
we do what do you believe what are you
seeing as some of the biggest mistakes
when B2B companies are going to Market
what are some of the big issues that you
see
out I mean I think the the biggest
obvious mistake and it's it's not I
don't want to use the word mistake
because it's something it's very hard to
do right is choosing choosing the go to
market motion that best fits your
business right and again it's tough to
say mistake because you know that's the
the magic question right um you know
figuring out am i product Le am I
outbound Leed are we inbound Leed are we
Community Le right are we partner or
Channel Le right these are big decisions
right and they're not easy ones to make
so I think the biggest miss that a lot
of companies have in their goto Market
is a either choosing the wrong go to
market or B pivoting away from their
chosen go to market too quickly and I
really think it's more the lad than the
previous right like once you once you've
done the research and you've made that
call hey we're going to we're going to
be this this is our primary go to market
um sticking that out and really
fine-tuning and pushing on it is really
where a lot of the success happens but
too many companies you know are
consistently pivoting go to markets and
to be candid that's where most of the
biggest mistakes I see happening the
spacer
happening right as in that they're
changing too quickly i. they might have
been product Le growth and then they
think they're going out like fully sales
Le and maybe just ramping up their
outbound sales team and that kind of
thing or yeah well it's yes sound too
quickly but more so not understanding
what that what that pivot means right
there are there's a rare few there's a
rare few talented people who can manage
multiple goto Market functions across a
revenue organization right there's a a
just a tiny percentage of humans who
understand enough about inbound
Community partner outbound you know all
of the you know product Le all of the
different nuances across those go to
markets to just say hey we tried good
you know product L for a year I think we
need to work on more of an inbounder
outbound strategy right because mostly
your goto Market motion is going to be
really really dependent on the talent
that you have in house and I think
that's the biggest Miss Right PE folks
think that I can take my current team
and I can switch my motion whereas you
built that team with a skill set based
on your previous motion or your chosen
motion and and again those generally
your team does not have the talent or
skill set to just magically switch right
and if you have one of those one of the
the tiny percentage of people who could
do that then hey more power to you but
most most outbound go to market
specialist couldn't execute inbound
right most inbound would have a
difficult time on partner or Channel Le
strategies most Channel or partner Le
strategists would have a very difficult
time executing on something like product
Le they're all very nuanced and the
skill set and just just tactics tools
and execution points across all them are
so very diverse that thinking your
current team could pivot their motion is
is is a is a pretty big Miss so we
saying perhaps that companies should
take more time in thinking about what go
to Market strategy they actually put in
play before they put in play I.E if
we're going to go all in on a sales Le
motion hire a bunch of sdrs to hit the
phones email LinkedIn whatever whatever
that strategy is and kind of consider is
this the the very best route before we
invest all these resources because once
we've got the resources in house if we
decide to switch a year two years 18
months whatever down the line then we're
fully geared up for this strategy and
we're almost hamstring ourself if we if
we decide to jump B jump sh you you just
have to know that changing that strategy
is a six to 12 month process right
there's no click at it like so when you
make that decision on how we're going to
go to market understand that changing it
making a change to to that go forward
will take you six months to spin down
and spin back
up are there any when you see when you
see what you've seen from businesses
Chris are there any key things I mean if
you're a SAS business appreciate there's
only a couple routes that you can go a
lot of kind of products are just set up
for product leg growth like you take
calendar calendar kind of scheduling
tools that market for example product
leg growth approach makes sense it's e
easy for people to jump into a free
trial people then see if you're using
the calendar sort of tool they see the
logo at the bottom whether that's
Revenue hero whether that's another one
and they kind of get the impression that
grows from that as well as their other
channels if you're some something a bit
more General I don't know maybe you're
picking out let's say for example a
niche in the CRM space maybe you're
building out a CRM specifically for I
don't know B2B construction companies
and you're picking quite a tight Niche
how would you advise like those kind of
companies pick out their goto Market if
they're in something that's that's a bit
more unusual a bit more specific and
there certain considerations you think
companies should take before they say
look we're going all in on this R I
think it's really over like too many o
really over complicated right a go to
market strategy is really well done by
thinking where is my buyer first off who
is my buyer and really laser focusing on
who my buyer is what types of companies
and what types of humans at those
companies buy my products and services
or have the highest propensity to and
where are they at that's really it right
and then figuring out how to most cost
effectively be where they're at right
that's in its simplest form that's go to
market so your so if your case is in
your case right
construction CRM software right you know
understanding that probably most of your
most of your buyers are in the field
somewhere they're not sitting at a
laptop or a desktop and you know like so
a free trial motion is probably very
difficult for them right but you know
they might be you know you you might
have 25% of your your buyers in you know
a regional area has x amount of
billboards or something of that nature
right so like again figuring out where
to reach those decision makers most cost
effectively is where you'll find the
most
success got it and that makes sense
right and I quite like that example
because it's a bit different compared to
some of the stuff we talk on the show
where we're talking about I don't know
mtek marketing Technology Solutions and
when you're selling that kind of
software to marketers you can quite
easily say well linkedin's going to work
because all marketers in the B2B Tech
space are hanging out on LinkedIn so
it's it's quite straightforward or
they're using Google search or they're
asking communities or they're using
their set channels so I quite like this
funny enough I would I would say that
B2B marketers spend little to no time on
like did right I mean if you look at I
mean if you look at some most of the
most of the folks from a a Persona
perspective on LinkedIn there's a lot of
sellers right obviously they there to
you know for they're there for a
specific reason but a lot of marketers
are they spend so much of their time
marketing that like going to a social
Channel like is it just isn't something
that they do right it's not not
something that's like hey I'm gonna go
hang here to do that right so I mean
look at again I sell to primarily B2B
demand gen growth and those types of
decision makers and if I were to pull up
my sales Navigator and look at the
12,000 followers I have in that space
and look at their last login I would
tell you that 75% of them haven't logged
in to LinkedIn in over 30
days interesting start just I I like to
be cool up if I'm off base and it sounds
like I was there maybe I'm just seeing
too many uh Marketing technologists in
my feed and that's thrown a bias yeah
it's it happens right like I mean the
who knows what you see on LinkedIn these
days basically magically choose what
they want to show you um you know
magically choose what they want to show
you whenever they want to show you you
know let's let's carry on this route so
let's um let's try and give some
examples for the audience of kind of
what's going to make we talked about
some of the things that you should avoid
we talked about the fact that you
shouldn't be pivoting your your goto
Market too quickly when it comes to
actually building out their strategy you
shared Chris kind of workout who your
target client who your buyer actually
is and work out where they're at let's
dive into that a little bit more so when
it comes to kind of building that
strategy out can you share a bit more
details about what you do in terms of
kind of navigating that setting those
initial foundations
up yeah I mean the the hard I I would
say the hardest part of it is is
identifying who your audience really is
it takes some time it depends on the
stage of your business as well too um
but I think really laser focusing on you
know the the who part right and then
figuring out how to cost effectively of
bring them into your communication scope
those are the two things that I find
most difficult especially in a down
economy most most Revenue teams lean on
trying to find people towards the quote
unquote bottom of the funnel right um
you know but you know really the it's
it's really better to take a longer view
or a longer play
into getting people I guess earlier in
the funnel right and then being able to
influence them and to into Revenue 699
12 x months down when they actually
decide to turn the key and say hey I'm
ready to go right so I think identifying
who and when is really the most
difficult part of that equation and I
think there's there's a ton of different
tactics to do it um but really most of
it comes down to just analyzing either
you're trailing win loss rates across
and and matching those up with specific
icps seeing where you're winning the
most you know a firmographic standpoint
Industries company sizes those types of
segments and then looking at who inside
the unit inside the those orgs is is is
you know becoming a close one with the
highest propensity right and then again
laser focusing on those folks right
there's I'm sure there's others who do
buy right but in this in this space and
in this economy and the go forward now
like it is is essential to be a master
of a of a a very very few finite things
versus trying to cover every base across
your tab or your go to market strategy
and again I think that's a big miss too
many Revenue teams try to cover every
base where the reality is if you just do
one really well um that will generally
drive more results than doing seven
things
averagely got it and when you say that
do you mean kind of one channel that you
actually utilize to drive pipeline to
drive prospects through the D has to say
um one channel one tactic one media
One messaging one you know there's
there's like again what across all of
those different segments right if I'm if
I'm in marketer right I you know I have
this conversation with my team all the
time right sometimes you have to
sacrifice some stuff right like yeah
like right now I for me I'm like hey you
know what we're gonna
deprioritize SEO and blog content I know
we should do it I understand I get the
value of it long term but we don't have
enough horses in the stable right now to
drive everything so right now we're
going to focus our efforts on being you
know having a a great brand having a
great you know podcast and doing awesome
outbound emails to our te to our
prospects and again those are just made
up examples but again sure you know you
can't do everything and really having
leadership or having team members who
are able to prioritize and let go of
things that you may may or may not
should do for the sake of what you have
to do given you know the current
landscape that you're in so again if I'm
if I'm a seller I know I should probably
do outbound email phone and Linkedin but
if I know that I'm not great at LinkedIn
right but I know that I'm really great
on phone or email I can prioritize most
of my time on what I'm great at versus
trying to you know I guess you would say
boil the ocean with multiple
tactics got it and is that what you
think if we're let's say there's some
marketers or founders tuning in that at
startups maybe they have got a small
team maybe that maybe it's them they've
got one marketer they've perhaps got one
seller one AE and then maybe a couple
folks that are working on the product or
building out the service so they are
very much lean company is is should we
take the angle of where do our strengths
lie like we know who our buyer is we
know where where they're hanging out um
I've got a seller that's perhaps not as
good as at email or social selling but I
know he's he's very good on the phone or
she she's very good on the phone and
likewise I know that this is one killer
channel for us as construction Pros
perhaps it's I don't know perhaps it's
trade shows or perhaps it's something
else where that audience is hang out so
let's let's dive into that kind of full
steam
or the play you know it's yes right I
mean but it's also like again it goes
back to where's my customer at right
like if I was if I was in a go to market
where I was selling to B2B marketers um
I would not hire a cold caller right who
was a great cold caller or phone-based
person B2B marketing folks don't
generally pick up the phone they're on a
lot of meetings and when they're off
those meetings they don't want to pick
up the phone right I would I would I
would focus on someone who's great on
outbound email messaging Andor inbound
right if I was selling into sellers
right um you know VPS of sales or
Executives I would hire a really
talented phone person right because I
know that your propensity to connect
with sales leaders because they just
inherently pick up the phone more they
also have an openness to cold calls
because of the history of some of them
actually doing the job a really talented
phoned seller is going to be
significantly more valuable selling to
that P particular Persona right so
really you know the figuring out what
you're going to do great should not only
be focused on what your team can do
great but also on what your what your
buyer Persona is most apt to engaging
with makes sense and I'm guessing a lot
of this comes down to actual customer
research so running interviews with
Target Prospect and knowing what
channels they actually like to
communicate on and actually use on a
day-to-day try I mean it's trial and
error right I mean there's trial and
error there's I mean some companies
don't have the resources to go out and
have a w a wide array of customer
interviews right I mean you can do them
bespoke five seven 10 12 of them right
but is that a true indication of your
audience as a whole right it might just
be the 10% who's a big fan of you and
will'll tell you what you want to hear
so um I I think in the early stages of
go to market it's about doing a little
bit of testing and and kind of dropping
your toes into Waters with you know very
limited resources maybe some fractional
Talent maybe some consultant Talent
maybe some you know before you actually
decide to kind of jump in from there but
you know I
think you it when when folks say I'm
looking for people with
experience right um I think that's
commonly misconstrued of of somebody
who's done something before right I've
led a team before i' I've led a team of
this size or I've done this right I
think the experience comes from having
innate knowledge of the buyer Persona
that you're looking to sell into right
so that is that's where I would focus on
building my team at is not necessarily
someone who's done something like oh I I
led a SAS sales team right
like SAS Erp and SAS marketing
technology are two completely different
cells not even close they're both SAS
but I wouldn't hire a SAS Erp leader to
run my my marketing Tech SAS platform
because the buyer Persona is completely
different right so find those folks who
know your audience who knows where they
go where they sit how they think and and
where they're and and kind of how they
they jive and that that person will
likely you know be a great resource for
you to really scale your go to
market yeah that's smart and I like
quite like the take on testing things
out because as you say customer research
is solid it's great I mean we've had
experts like Ryan Paul Gibson on the
show who's kind of given a bit of a
masterclass on B2B customer research but
you are right that it's either not cheap
if you hire outside agencies or
Consultants or it takes a lot of
resource right to interview ton of
prospects actually get people at up for
interviews and then carrying that all
out if you're going to do it internally
yourself or hire a separate team you've
either got to have that resource or cash
so I suppose starting with the the most
sensible route which is a lot of what
you've been sharing really Chris in
terms of kind of working out where those
people hang out how they're going to
communicate and if you can on board team
members that have experience working
with that Persona I suppose it's only a
quick quick way
in yeah I think I mean really so much of
it is just so again over complicated
right I mean I think I I don't know why
we do it but as humans we find you know
we feel like the the need to to to
Really Over complicate things and be
over reliant on you know data points
that are very
shortterm look backs right I I think to
your point earlier what's another common
misconception of you know it and misses
and go to market strategy is that
looking at data points that are
shortterm and and looking like looking
at them like their Trends and then
making changes based on you know very
short-term data sets I mean the good
news on Revenue teams right now is that
there's a lot of great tools out there
right gongs and and all you know claries
and all these all these tools that can
showcase really interesting statistical
you know almost instant stats and
Analysis on close weights Ren rates all
of that right but you know in the wrong
hands right and somebody who is who
isn't doesn't understand trends cross
Revenue teams and is really looking at
simple data points right you know
there's there could be an almost like a
too much pivoting right too much too
much change in Focus which drives your
team basically you end up you end up you
know I guess Chasing Rainbows if you
will right like you know when the sales
leader is reaching out to their team
with oh this month we're focused on win
rates oh because that's what gong says
or this week we're this month we're
focused on you know prospecting because
we need more Ops because that's what
gong says and you like so it feels like
to your team that we're just constantly
figuring out right whereas you know
choose the one you know the couple
trending metrics that you know long term
will drive the most return for the
business and and keep consistent with
them and focus on the execution of them
versus consistently changing that path
and that's again another key Miss I've
seen I like that one is there any that
you've seen that should be focused on
like you say a lot of folks could could
constantly which things are you we need
to do more prospecting this month we
need to ramp more cash into I don't know
paid search ads or we need to build out
the content engine fire up our podcast
or build out more blog articles whatever
that may be are there any kind of key
metrics you think these are just
fundamentals that you should focus
on I think for me the most important
metric is opportunity creation both by
volume of opportunities created and
total pipeline created from SE
opportunities right you're you're you're
the most leading forward- facing
indicator is the amount of New
Opportunities popping up in your in your
system whether that's through you're an
inbound motion that comes from marketing
and demand gen teams if you're an
outbound motion that's coming from your
SDR team and your outbound flows if
you're a product Le motion that's coming
from you know new engagements with your
premium or your free trial right if
you're a partner-led motion it's through
additional you know partner engagements
or growth on that side that is the
leading metric that if you don't do well
well if you don't get ahead of it
there's almost nothing that can save you
from it you know like right now there's
a lot of talk about win rates um you
know like my personal take is that I I
also like to focus on things that I know
I can have the most control over right
and to be candid win rates while we'd
love to think we have this amazing
amount of magic control over them
there's so many factors in winning a
deal that are outside of a seller or
Revenue team's control that focusing
there is is you know again can you get
better there sure but you can't control
a company's budget freeze you know you
can't control a company's delayed timing
you can't control a company's internal
politics you know there's so many
variables that happen um that focusing
on something like win rates you know
generally I I just don't recommend
whereas one thing that you can control
is how many opportunities you're putting
into the system right you basically how
many at bats right you can't you're
never going to really be able to control
how many home runs you hit right but you
can generally control or at least have a
high impact and how many ad bats your
team has yeah it's a fair point and like
you say in terms of what's actually
closing there there's there's so many
things that can affect a closed deal in
terms of get from initial conversation
to that CL that cash in the bank which
could be that they're evaluating three
or five vendors and in the end they
actually went with the incum they
decided to stick with the devil they
knew like there's so many outside
factors that can affect but I love the
the fact of kind of focusing on Pipeline
created and would like to know your take
because I know a lot of people have
different opinions on what actually
counts as a a qualified
opportunity and that's really an I
mean metrics in a in a revenue
organization right mqls sqls sqas mqas
like there 177,000 so many and the best
I I can't remember where I read this
online but I read it on LinkedIn
somewhere right an mql is really just a
contract between a marketing and a sales
team right basically it's a contract
between the goto Market team that we all
agree that this lead is what we want it
to be right and and that in its simplest
form is how I would Define a qualified
opportunity right there has to be a a
very specific and very wellth thought
out contract between whatever team is
generating the lead and whatever team is
following up on it that this is exactly
what we're going for and then everybody
has to be accountable for both sides of
the equation generating a lot of those
and converting them on that side where
the misses usually happen is that one
team is quote unquote stronger
politically in an organization than the
others they set some sort of expectation
that you know we need more of these you
know what's called an SQL which is
basically basally somebody willing to
buy um the weaker political organization
inside a company doesn't have the
internal Gusto to say hey what you're
asking for is
impossible um and then they end up
settling with some sort of like hey I'll
give it my best go and then you're
setting up the team to fail because you
know let's call it the selling team is
expecting 500 their definition sqls the
marketing team has they know that
there's no way in human existence that
that's going to happen given the budgets
and parameters that set in place they do
the best they can and then they try to
supplement their stats with here's some
other good things we're doing right and
again that's where I guess you would say
blunders type happen right so like when
you're going to Market you having a very
clear and I I use the word contract
because it's that important it's
something that you'd even should even
consider having sign off of from both
sides of the house that this is exactly
who we're going for we believe it's
realistic right and I believe I can
generate what you're looking for and you
believe you can close it and if you have
that doesn't matter what you call it an
mql an SQL an sqa an M you know pick an
acronym if you have that locked and
loaded that's where most teams see the
most
success yeah I think we're quite aligned
on that really I don't think there is a
need to mess about with so much
different jaring between different types
of Pipeline and whatever you want to
call it I think that's quite a smart
move agreeing in internally what counts
as a qualified opportunity and once
you've got those guidelines in place and
that's that you don't need to mess
around too much do you think that you
should organizations should be thinking
about other opportunities I.E let's say
for example qualified up is someone that
has a certain is fits in a certain uh
company size a certain job title let's
say they've agreed that they've got
budget to work with us Etc various other
factors and points that will come into
that and then if a prospect is it worth
company setting up different barriers
that I suppose earlier funnel IE don't
know eBook download signs up to
newsletter comes through webinar that
kind of stuff I suppose earlier stage
opportunities yeah I mean I think it's
really giving the customer what they
want right I mean every piece of data
says that the modern buyer wants to
spend 70% of its time doing its own res
arch before they have an engagement with
sales right so I think it's just
figuring out what that 70% looks like at
what point have they done enough
research that it's time to get an
engagement with sales and then figuring
out that engagement you're not
necessarily disqualifying them right um
you're really just figuring out at what
point is the best time to to to use
again tighter resources um to push them
for to accelerate their path in the
funnel right and again that's different
for every company different for every
Market different for every industry but
really that's what it comes down to is
you know understanding you know when is
the time to invest the resources that
are more costly right and again sales
resources are usually the most expensive
in New York right so you know but also
you have to find the line between you
know pushing on the selling organization
too that hey you have to do some work
right this isn't just going to be a
whole lot of
layups where ready to buy right you know
so like that's the again A lot of times
that comes down to political Capital
right usually usually the seller or the
the head of sales or Revenue tends to
hold the biggest stick right and they
tend to push on the other the other you
know customer experience marketing the
other teams internally right under the
guise of the customer under the guise of
this is what we need to be successful
and I think it's important to have
someone whether it be the CEO or
somebody in organization as a whole who
holds that into check right and ensure
that the selling organization is being
held accountable for re for for just
being real right and not pushing on
every every other division in the
company to magically create the revenue
for
that I like it so I imagine this is this
is quite a variable question but if
you're selling something your solution
is quite low ticket and quite a speedy
quite a quick sales cycle I imagine
knowing if your goto Market strategy is
working or not is probably fairly
straight forward because you're building
out the pipeline and deals are closing
quite fast because what you're offering
is quite low ticket quite transactional
whereas if we go to more with midm
Market or even Enterprise where deals
can take six months plus to go from
initial opportunity created to close one
Revenue how long do we give like a GTM
strategy to know if it's actually going
to be successful because it could be
that we've got leads in the funnel but
we don't actually know if they're going
to close because the deal cycle is so
long and then it could be by the time
it's got to that six to eight month
window where we're anticipating a close
like they've gone with the incumbent or
they've done something else so I suppose
it's a it's a tricky question but I'd
like to know your thoughts there are I
mean there are trending
indicators outside of just closed one
right I
mean again volume of deals in the
pipeline is a key trending indicator
versus just looking at total pipeline
because what happens a lot of the time
is companies will look at total pipeline
as a key metric going forward but that
generally is skewed by one of two things
one a couple of really really large
deals that are skewing that pipeline up
um or be poor pipeline management or
poor forecasting from a pipeline
standpoint in whatever CRM that
someone's using but in the case of the
first point right the total pipeline
number is skewed by three or let's call
it 10 % you know 10% of the deals make
up 70% of the total pipeline by by by
actual Revenue number not not volume so
if one or two of those deals fall out
right then that's when you start to see
a quote unquote go to market strategy
not work because it didn't turn into
Revenue with the clips that you thought
right whereas looking at volume of
pipeline generated right and that's
really just and not just in total that's
just as far as what's out there right
doing an analysis on on average right
now for the next 12 months how many
companies do we expect to be in market
for what we sell how many of those are
we capturing into our pipeline at a
given time and again that's probably
your most key Market to know if your
goto Market strategy is
working got
it are there any tools or
recommendations for people that aren't
familiar with that kind of analysis
level any recos that you've got on how
people can do that I mean there's a
there's a couple different I mean it
really depends on the market or industry
that you work in right like you know
there's there's triggers in most
industries that showcase a propensity to
buy right like you know some with some
some folks it's a uh um with some folks
it's a you know like a a new hire if you
will right if somebody if somebody if a
new company hire just as an example if
somebody hires a head of AI right then
chances are they're probably in market
for AI Technologies in the next six to
12 months if somebody brings in a new
CMO or a new CFO or a new C something or
a VP of something chances are they're
looking to re-evaluate their Tech stack
in some form or fashion so I would say
that they have a higher propensity to
engage in my Solutions per that higher
right there are just General Industry
Trends right like as an example like you
know some some public or you know State
institutions have RFP cycles that
everyone knows happens right you know
like so there's a lot of data in some of
those cases when RFS are coming
available based on timing Andor you know
publicly available information right um
and then there's just a lot of uh you
know good what I call good information
gathering from the outbound or inbound
teams right so any engagement you have
with a potential customer it's important
not to just see if they're willing to
take a call but at least pull other
information from that that might help
you later what you know if someone says
hey I'm not interested right now I'm
using X vendor right most sellers or
most outbound or most anyone would just
say hey thanks cool I'm gonna go to the
next call but taking three seconds to
say who are you using and when is your
renewal up and then capturing that data
in your CRM so you have a forward-
facing pipeline of renewal opportunities
Andor you know customer acquisition or
takeover opportunities is another key
key facet as well so it's tough to say
it's a pretty you know generally it's
tough to say I mean I work in in B2B
media and advertising so my customers in
order to use my competitors have to put
something out there right so if I if I
see that something out there then I
obviously know that that customer is in
Market over the next six to 12 months so
I can focus my resources there right so
it's there's no like M I wish there was
a magic board that did it but there's
just it's just kind of figuring out in
your space what is a trigger right what
is a trigger that you that that you know
that someone's either thinking about or
getting ready to be in market and then
figuring out how do I collect those
triggers and then attack them go that
okay I have a customer in the let's say
the HR software space where they pay my
call center just to reach out to HR
people and ask them what are they using
and when are they when is their renewal
up that's it no what we're not there's
no appointment setting that happens
there's no try to get some I mean
obviously if someone says I'm looking
right now then we'll connect them right
but the purpose of them leveraging my
outbound call center at MRP is just to
col that data because they know if they
have if they have data on a thousand
2,000 3,000 companies on what vendor
they're currently using and when their
renewal is up they can attack their
selling and marketing organization not
only get the right companies but the
right companies at the right time and
that's going to drive you know it's
already it's already driving a ton of
positive Roi for them just because they
have again every outbound reach that
they have now that they've compiled
enough data is seeing increased response
rates because they're hitting people not
only with great messaging but also at
the right
time message plus timing one of the uh
one of the best approaches to sales or
marketing but also one of the most
difficult and I also appreciate the The
Cheeky plug of your own company is very
subtle I do
I timing is timing is really everything
messaging is I don't want to say
irrelevant it's nice to have it's like
you know like but at the end of the day
um and I've said this many times before
a shitty email sent at a perfect time
will outperform a wonderful email sent
at the wrong time and that'll happen
100% of the
time yeah yeah it's fair it's fair I
can't I can't argue with that so we
talked about quite a lot about kind of
fundamentals we shared kind of an our
example of the construction Niche CRM
about getting perhaps the first seller
as a almost industry expert who knows
the Persona kind of inside out so
they've got that unfair Advantage for us
and can kind of share where those Target
clients are going to be hanging out and
the best way to break into those
accounts and communicate with them so as
things ramp up let's say that our motion
that we've built out is
working in that situation are we are we
doing more of the same or there kind of
considerations that we should perhaps
bear in mind Chris as as the company
Revenue scales up and as we realize
we're on to something and we want to
kind of build out the play that kind of
usually growth issues that you see with
businesses or there are other things
that we should consider before we just
say let let's put a load more cash and
resource into doing more of more of what
we were doing
before it's it's a good question right
like there there's different levels of
scale that require different you know
different attack plans right I think the
instead of just doing more I mean that
you can do more of the same right and
get pretty big right like like a a
singular go to market can can scale
fairly large obviously depending on your
Tam and all of those other variables as
well too right but I think like a common
misconception is in order to scale we
have to we have to diversify and do more
more different things right which
obviously more different things cost
more money right and like those
additional cost for unproven mechanisms
generally don't end up being as as
fruitful if you just invested more into
what you know you do really really well
right like so it's the key is having
expert on your team who knows when
you've tapped a resource right and a
simple example right um You should spend
all of your budget on maximizing paid
search until you've maximized it right
like there's those are from an intent
perspective someone who goes into Google
and types in B2B you know HR software
likely has the high highest intent to
purchase of any vendor in the space so
you should focus a 100 % of your
resources on maximizing that channel
until you've maximized it until you have
enough data that says hey we can't scale
this anymore there's only so much search
there's only so many people searching
and there's only so much we can win
competitively we've we've taken that as
far as it goes okay great once we've
done that what's our next what's the
next point the next attack point and
then you take that secondary attack
Point as far as it can go right so most
to be or most Revenue teams fail in that
they try to do seven things well try to
do a little bit of paid search I try to
do a little bit of social I try to do a
little bit of outbound I'm try you know
playing around with with some brand and
some advertising they might have a
podcast right you're kind of you know
you're again boiling the ocean trying to
do everything at the same time whereas
if you if you're singularly focused on
on whatever CH I mean again I I use the
the Google search example right but that
might not be the channel to exhaust if
you're selling like robotic systems for
warehouses right you know if you're
selling robotic systems for warehouses
then it might be micro events right and
having individual demos of your little
robot doing its thing right that might
be the channel that you need to exhaust
we cannot get any more people to to
watch our demos of our robot right okay
now that we've maximized that what's
next yeah yeah yeah I mean a lot of this
I think we're we're very similar mindset
I I took pretty preach about this stuff
all the time in SEO when when I talk
about exhausting that Target Market that
is raising their hand that is quite
literally searching for your offer now
build out all those opportunities so in
our case build out those bottom of the
funnel pages on your website exhaust
that only then start looking other
tactics and strategies and yours are the
same way gave the paid search example
the robotic example what is the Nob
brainer that your prospects are doing
could be Google could be elsewhere where
are they going where are they clicking
where are they heading heading who are
they asking where are they in when
they're in market and that they're ready
to speak to salesperson exhaust that and
then think about other avenues because
otherwise you're like you say spreading
yourself too thin or spreading resources
too thin or doing stuff that's kind of a
waste of time really because you're not
all in on it yeah and most don't like
again that that word exhaust really
means exhaust like Take It to the Limit
where you know with a 100% certainty
that there's nothing more that you can
pull out of that tactic or that strategy
then and only then do you move on to
strategy or tactic number
two nice I think that's a good way to
wrap it up Chris so with that I want to
say thanks very much for coming on the
show sir enjoyed the chat and please to
share more about haveone tuning in can
learn more about yourself the company
and the best way to get in touch awesome
Yes it means you can reach uh me
personally on LinkedIn at Christopher
rack also have a podcast um on Spotify
uh Apple iTunes called BTO boring right
in that podcast each week we talk to a
B2B marketer um talk a little bit about
marketing and then we ask them about a
campaign or a program that they've ran
in their career that was not boring you
know generally looking to inspire our
guests with ideas or Creative Solutions
they might be able to take each and
every week and pull from there you can
reach MRP at
www.mp fd.com um or on our socials at um
MRP on generally LinkedIn but we're also
on Instagram and and Tik Tok and a
couple other places as well so check us
out check me out happy to connect with
anybody from this group and uh you know
awesome cool man I'll put all of those
links in the show notes below I
appreciate you coming on awesome well
thank you again I appreciate it was been
it's been fun good chat and you know
happy to join anytime no worries dude we
got to give a quick shout out to our
sponsors of the show Revenue hero and
factors
Ai and if you enjoyed the episodes why
not join thousands of Legends enjoying
our weekday newsletter check out past
episodes or if you want to apply to work
with us head over to breaking
bb.com and a big thank you to you the
audience for tuning in catch you on the
next one for more nobs B2B marketing
strategies to grow your business grow
Revenue catch you
[Music]
soon